I will talk about the body liquids from a dead man's corpse that the sorcerers are drinking. I will start the story.

When the sorcerers go for drinking body fluids, they begin by taking that one out. They've made a bark tray. They make it from the paperbark tree by bending the bark into shape. Then they go to the corpse. People have bury a man in the grave. About one week later, the sorcerer sets off to the grave, to the grave house. He sneaks there in the middle of the night. Nobody will ever see him. He goes there in the dark without a flashlight, without any light. He will be with black clothes. Not in white clothes because someone might see him. Then he walks up to the grave. He looks around for a small hole. When he finds a small hole at the head end he inserts a small bamboo pipe. That bamboo pipe is about this long. He pushes it into the hole. Then he goes and puts the barktray close to the bamboo pipe. He will spray the body fluid with the bamboo stick. He sucks up the body fluid and pours it on the barktray. Until he's got enough. He won't fill the barktray right up. When he sees that there is enough there, he pulls out that bamboo pipe. Then closes up the hole properly. Then he departs. He will carry these body fluids in the barktray, where nobody would see him doing this. He will hide it.

Before he starts anything, he will go and get whatchamacallit, the ginger. Those things will be ready. and also a feather of a bird. Only after that, he goes to the grave, fills up the barktray, and hides it for drinking. First, he sprinkles the body liquid with the ginger because it has a bad taste. Its taste is not good. He sprinkles it all over. Then he dips in the feather. He carefully dips it in since the body fluid should not touch (his mouth). It would scratch his mouth. He puts it carefully into the mouth because it's bitter, because of its terrible taste. He does that and he dips it in. And he puts it down (his throat) and licks it. He continues doing this until he finishes up the fluid. When he's done, we will burn the barktray in the fire because of the bad smell. He burns it in the fire (and) he returns to his house.

He will sleep peacefully until the bloodlust overcomes him. Okay, then he gets going. He doesn't not do his magic in the house. He will go far somewhere in the bush. He has to go away to kill people. First, he will pray to god. He will say to god: ``You take back the spirit but leave the flesh for me.'' He will point out a particular person and mention their name, for example ``Mbäi! Take Mbäi's spirit back and leave his flesh behind for me!'' Then he sets off. He won't visit the person because his wife or his children will distract him. Therefore, he will go out to some place in the savannah. He will perform this action there, but the magic will hit (that person). He can fly from there where ever (he wishes), for example if a \textit{Rouku} boy is the sorcerer, he will do this in night and fly from here to Safés. He will strike him with a spell. He will strike him with magic. Then he returns in the night. He doesn't stay there overnight. He goes back in the night. He will not walk on the road, but he will fly.

He will do like this: When he has finished (drinking the bodily fluid), he starts casting spells. Next, some people there will fall ill. He can put a spell on a wallaby or on a dog, or on any other (game) animals there. He will do this to animals, not to another man. But the sorcerer's spirit will go inside some animal or whatever. I can go inside a dog. It can be anything, for example a bird. For example, he does these rituals to a dog and he puts some man's name to it. The man will die, but the dog will not die quickly. As the dog slowly perishes, the man will suffer in the same way. Some day the dog will die. The man will also die there, because the dog was marked with his name. This is how they are doing the magic.

It's when they drink these body fluids, they become strong. The strength of the corpse carries them to another village. Sometimes, they will also extract bones, human bones from the corspe. It is really for flying. These bones allow them to go to other places. And these body fluids give them power. The bones will carry them, for example to \textit{Safés} or to \textit{Wämnefr}. They can fly far away (to places) such as \textit{Weam}. Wherever they wish. They could fly all the way to \textit{Arufi}, to places far away. This power can take them there, it's the bones and the body fluid. Thank you.

That was the small story. I have told you as I have heard it from others. The boys talk about this all the time. Thank you.