I will tell a hunting story now, a story about hunting. We were living in \textit{Masu}. Alice and Riley were small. Our camp was that place, at the old woman's place. She used to have cassava garden there.

Father said to us ``I'll go hunting''. It was on Sunday. Father set off to go hunting. He went across the river to \textit{Kuf}. Some young girls were living there, bush girls. As father departed, he began hunting for pigs with his dogs. The dogs started barking (at the pigs). This was a clear place without trees, only dödö bushes. These dödö that we use as a broom. Only those bushes were there. Then father aimed with his bow and arrow, and he shot it. He kept on shooting at it with arrows. He shots it and left it there. Then he heard these girls. These bush girls were shouting. Okay, there doing this but father thought to himself ``This could be my aunt and my uncle.'' Phillip's mother, his sister really. "It could be her."

Then he came back and he told us, ``The pig is lying there.'' We were together with Sitau's sister Dayér, who is now living in \textit{Tokwa}. Dayér wasn't married then. He arrived there. Father told us, ``I just killed a pig, a huge one! How will I carry it? also what was shouting there? Which girls were just shouting there? those bushgirls?'' Then he took us there. We walked quickly. We burned the fur off the pig. Father didn't know how to cut it up. Only me, I was cutting the pigs. Father told me: ``Cut up the pig quickly!'' I finished it and we packed it up.

Riley and Alice were staying here, where the old woman is living. She stayed in the house. She was looking after them. Father made a flute from the small bamboo. In those days we blew these (flutes) - `kuuuuu’ - when we had hunting luck. When we got big animals like pigs or cassowaries, when we killed something big. That's when we blow the kufraru flute. Oh, it's not the kufraru. It's the other one made from the small bamboo, the turatura flute. That's the one we blew. It is similar to the kufraru flute. They cut the turatura flute from the small bamboo. That's the one we were blowing. We went back home. Riley was still very small, he was in the baby basket. Alice was running around saying ``Our father is making me happy.''

So we carried back the pig and we baked it in the oven. We cut the meat for them. Sitau's late father and the family were there. We cut some meat for them and also for ourselves. We sometimes came here for the weekend and then we returned to \textit{Masu}, where we lived at the time. Anyhow, we went back to the house. Okay, that's the end of the story. These are small stories.