Where will we start? ``Where did the yams come from?'' Okay! We will start the story in this way, with Kwafar. We will come like this and then finish up with the rain stones. What rain stones they used to have. We will finish with this part. So it will be one story. As for this story, it was my father Bäi who told it. He told it to us. Well, this story will be passed on today.

This story is about Kwafar. ``Kwafar", that's how father began the story. Kwafar was in the centre, where this continent ends today and where the ocean begins, to where the Australian land ends. That is where Kwafar was located. The people used to live together in Kwafar. They stayed on top of a Wäsi tree. They call this one Wäsi. Over there is one with a shadow. The people were living there, and they spoke different languages. Some lived at the foot of the tree, others in the middle and still others at the top. They all spoke different languages.

One day, the Wäsi tree started to burn. It really ignited. Some people ran away, while others burned in the fire. So the Wäsi tree burned to the ground. Those people who stayed at the top, and those (who stayed) inside, they also burned. Then, in the morning, people began to disperse. They lived all by themselves. When the fire burned, it burned down everything. It became a charred place, a clear place, a burnt place. There was a huge spirit being, a very big creature. It roamed around and ate (people), the dead people who lay there. 

In the morning, Gwam called his dogs (to go) hunting at that burned place. He started with one of the dogs. The dog was barking, and Gwam was thinking like this. In fact, there were two men. They were well known: Gwam with his younger brother Muri. Gwam was the older brother and Muri was the younger brother. So it was Gwam who called the dogs in the morning (to go hunting) and that one dog stopped because of this (creature). It was startled. It was that creature eating the human bodies. He ate the dead, the decaying corpses. Gwam saw it from a distance. ``What's that?'' (he said) and tried to take a look at it. ``What creature is this?'' The creature stopped with a full stomach. The (survivors) started to run. That dog who was barking, its name was Tifér. It started (to bark at the creature) and the people tried to shoot it. But they didn't succeed. Gwam told his small brother: ``Muri, come over here to my side! I'll shoot him from here'' and (Muri) said, ``Shoot now! because the others are shooting, but it's not dying.'' Gwam said: ``No, they don't know where the heart is. Only I can see it from here.'' They kept on doing this. One was talking and then the other one was talking. (Gwam said) ``Okay brother, I will shoot now! Watch out!'' The story goes that it was the older brother (who shot). The younger brother is said to have owned a shotgun. The younger brother did not hit the animal. The older brother drew the bow (and hit it). The creature dropped down. He speared it. The arrow bored right through to the heart.

Water began to break out. Water was flowing. Water that was running everywhere. Where the roots of the Wäsi tree burned, where the fire burned them, the water flowed along those roots. The water chased away some of the people in this direction. Others were chased away towards our side here. The people from Gwam ran here and those from Muri in the other direction. Those who ran away scattered. Some came to Bawi. For example, the Wartha people who live over there, and the Kondomarin and the Sémärki. Those peoples' (ancestors) ran from there. They ran from there to Bawi. Then Gwam extinguished the fire. No, he hit the running water with the broom and the water stopped flowing. The water did not spread further, it stopped there. So the people were coming to Zwari, the Wartha people really. They settled there in Zwari. They realised that they spoke different languages. So the Kondomarin people went further this way. Nowadays, they live in Merauke. Others came up from Zwari towards Thoro. At Thoro it was the same again. They realised that they spoke different languages. So they moved further inland. Others came from Zwari straight to Tamgakar. For example, the people who live at Safés. They were walking this way. As for our ancestor and his people, they walked to Komo. They came up at Komo. They left some of our Mayawa people there. Some Mayawa people live there in the middle, and also some Bangu people. Nowadays, these people live at Mibini. He also left some Sangara people there. Okay, they spread further to Mongarkam. Other Sangara people continued until Déridéri. The Bangu people came to Mäta, and the Sangara people to Garaita. We Mayawas came here.

As for our ancestor, the Mérzar's ancestor, his name was Mathkwi. Mathkwi was bringing along those things: the yam stone. He had this one. It was for (the cultivation of) yams, long yams, taro and cassava, and for other kinds of crops. He came with that (stone). As he walked towards the place where the stones lay near Zambérta, they crossed the river. They crossed the river during the flood season. Then he thought to himself ``Should I go to Garaita? No, someone's already gone there.'' So he started walking towards Safés. He got going and walked until Akrimongo. He saw footprints there. ``Oh, others are already here.'' Then he shot an arrow that flew all the way to Yéménz. Then (he heard people) from there and said: ``Oh, there's already someone there. Then I will go this way.'' So he left Akrimongo and started walking. He came straight to a place called Füsari. From Füsari to Rarafü Kar. From Rarafü Kar to Kafrir, where he crossed the stream, until whatsthat, until Zofok. He was resting in Zofok. The bamboo trees are still there. There he fixed his bow and put on the string there. He ate some yamcake. Those crumbs from the yamcake turned into stones. They still exist. That stone that he had brought, that rain stone, he named it ``Zofok'' at that place. Then he continued and came to Misa Zéféth. Mämbri was first, then Misa Zéféth and then Yérén. He went down there (to the river) and walked to Benzü Zéféth. From there he heard the birds calling, the butcherbird and the bird of paradise. He thought: ``This must be high ground. I am going to walk there.'' He came there and crossed (the river) at Kukwérémb Fér, opposite Ménzär Fér. That's where he came and where he walked up (from the river). He dropped some crumbs of the yamcake there. He came here to Zöfäthak. Over there, by the old coconuts, there are some more (crumbs) there. He dropped some more there. Then he stopped (and said) ``I was looking for this (place).'' He looked at the forest and he heard the butcherbird and he heard the other one, the bird of paradise. Then he said ``I will go this way. There is a place, Faremkar.'' When he came there, he heard something (and said) ``Someone is staying in Fütha.'' He listened again (and said) ``Oh, there is someone in Faremkar already.'' So he continued to walk. The ancestor of the Farem was already there. Those one's ancestor, Fatama's ancestor. He was staying in the centre of Faremkar. He said to him ``You stay over there! You can settle in Fisor Béthan!'' Then another ancestor arrived, from the Wazu clan. He said: ``You can settle there in Wazu!'' (Mathkwi) saw that it was a small piece of land (and he said) ‘Oh, this is where you want me to live? I will go back this way.'' While he returned from there, he was dropping crumbs of the yamcake, those scraps, while he was on his way. They're right here. They are lying here. He kept dropping these crumbs. There are some lying over there. In this way, he continued on to Masu. As he arrived, he said: ``This is my place. My people will live here.'' They call this story place Yari.

So he arrived in Yari. He arrived with the rain stone. As he came, he brought another stone, the yam stone for long yam, yam, taro, and cassava, for all these other types of crops. He was staying with those items. The planting season came. Then the leaves of the yam plants became dry and he pulled off some of the yam leaves or long yam leaves, or sweet potato leaves. All those leaves like cassava leaves. He put the stone inside those (leaves). He rolled it up in these leaves. He tied it up and put down (the bundle) at the base of the plants. It lay there until he saw that the yam leaves are really dried up. Then he called the women: ``Go people!'' The women went and took one yam from each plot. (They took) one big yam, the really big ones. One yam from this plot, and another one from that plot, and so on. They burned off the hair (on the tubers). They took them out of the fire and put them in the oven. In the afternoon, they took them to where they had set up the post. (All those ancestors were doing that:) Mathkwi, Karawa, Kukuma and Ote. They had set up the post and they put the yams down at the base. Then these yams were on the verge of decay, they started to rot. Time went by until (the other yams were) almost ripe. When the yams were ripe, they heard about the tasting in Mäta or Garaita. Each time they tried the yams, (they shouted) ``Listen up!'' The wind blew and carried the message here. The Masu people heard it and said: ``Oh, they have already tasted the yams.'' So they also took one yam each. They chose a big or small one. They put it in the oven. They scraped the inside fibre out, mixed it with coconut, and formed round balls. They tasted these and then they threw the balls this way. They threw their arms in the air and shouted: ``Listen, you Farem people, this is for you!'' And so it happened. This tasting ritual passed by (heading west). Next, they saw that the leaves had really dried up and the yams were ready. So they picked up the digging stick (and started harvesting).

This ritual was passed on all the way to Bäi. When Bäi became a man, his father gave him (the yam stone). (His father) Ote had also looked after the rain stone and the yam stone, the food stone. This continued until we became men. Those two stones where under our care. Until recently, we followed this tradition in Masu. But then we moved to where we live now. We are here now. That was the time when (father) became ill and died. Those things were with Greg's father, these two whatchamacallit, these two stones. Then, our father passed away and we don't know with whom they are now. Someone must have hidden them.

Okay, the story I just told was passed down from our ancestors to our fathers, to the grandfathers, to the late grandfather until it came to our father. It was about to pass to us like this. But nobody follows (this tradition) any more. 